# PART I: INTRODUCTION
&nbsp;

: 1\. Citation

: 2\. Commencement

: 3\. Revocation of previous practice directions

: 4\. Updating

: 5\. Applicability of Practice Directions

: * Practice Directions to apply to civil proceedings

: * Proceedings using the Electronic Filing Service

: * Proceedings not using the Electronic Filing Service

: 6\. Forms

: 7\. Registrar’s Circulars

: 7A. Business of the Registry

# 1\. Citation

These Practice Directions may be cited as the Supreme Court Practice
Directions.

# 2\. Commencement

These Practice Directions shall come into effect on 1 January 2013.

# 3\. Revocation of previous practice directions

These Practice Directions are issued to consolidate all previous
practice directions of the Supreme Court.  All previous editions of
practice directions are revoked with effect from 1 January 2013.

# 4\. Updating

(1) Amendments to these Practice Directions will be done on a
paragraph-for-paragraph basis.  These Practice Directions will be
automatically updated with the new amended paragraphs.  A list of
amendments made will also be found on the Supreme Court website, on a
noter-up page entitled 'Amendments'.

(2) Where legislation is cited in these Practice Directions, the
citation shall be read to refer to the edition of that legislation
currently in force.

# 5\. Applicability of Practice Directions

Practice Directions to apply to civil proceedings

(1) These Practice Directions shall apply to civil proceedings only
unless otherwise stated.

Proceedings using the Electronic Filing Service

(2) For proceedings using the Electronic Filing Service, Part XXII of
these Practice Directions does not apply.

Proceedings not using the Electronic Filing Service

(3) For proceedings that do not use the Electronic Filing Service, the
following paragraphs of Parts I to XXI do not apply:

(a) 37(3);

(b) 59(5);

(c) 69(1) to 69(3);

(d) 70(3) and (5);

(e) 71(3) to 71(7);

(f) 75(3) to (5);

(g) 78;

(h) 97;

(i) 100 to 115;

(j) 116 to 119;

(k) 132(2) to 132(7);

(l) 133(5);

(m) 134(6); and

(n) 145;

and Part XXII applies.

# 6. Forms

The forms in Appendix A of these Practice Directions shall be used where
applicable, with such variations as the circumstances of the case may
require.

# 7\. Registrar’s Circulars

Registrar’s Circulars can be found at the Supreme Court web site at
http://[www.supremecourt.gov.sg](http://www.supremecourt.gov.sg).

# 7A. Business of the Registry

(1) Pursuant to section 71(1) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act and
Order 60, Rule 1(1) of the Rules of Court, the Chief Justice has
directed that the Registry shall comprise of the Division for the Court
of Appeal, the Division for the High Court and the Division for the
Singapore International Commercial Court.

(2) There shall be a Divisional Registrar for the Court of Appeal, the
High Court and the Singapore International Commercial Court. The
Divisional Registrar shall have control and supervision of the affairs
of each division of the Registry. Overall control and supervision of the
Registry shall remain with the Registrar.

(3) The Chief Justice may designate the Deputy Registrar, any Senior
Assistant Registrar or Assistant Registrar as Divisional Registrar. The
Chief Justice may also designate any Assistant Registrar as Senior
Assistant Registrar.

(4) Appendix H sets out the names of the Registrar, Deputy Registrar,
Divisional Registrars and Senior Assistant Registrars.

(5) Pursuant to Order 60, Rule 1(3)of the Rules of Court, the business
of the Registry is governed by the Rules of Court and these Practice
Directions. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that any
instruction manuals which may be issued from time to time by the
Government are not applicable to the business of the Registry.

Test
